Casual edit pass on unions and interfaces docs (#4857)
apollographql/apollo-server: docs/source/schema/unions-interfaces.md

---
title: Unions and interfaces

> description: Polymorphic schema types

Reviewer: I think in GraphQL our tendency is to call these "abstract" types rather than polymorphic. I'm open to being convinced otherwise, just sharing my experience.

---

**Unions** and **interfaces** are polymorphic GraphQL types that enable a schema field to contain one of multiple object types.

> > **Tip:** If a field can contain object types that **all share relevant subfields**, use an interface. Otherwise, use a union.

Reviewer: This is difficult for me to grok.

Primarily because fields don't contain object types, but they can return them.
Secondly, I think expanding on the two scenarios would be valuable. This may be deserving of a complete section with examples rather than just an aside.

Reviewer: It seems what I'm asking for is actually written out below. In which case I'd consider removing this tip or rewording it in a way that's a bit more descriptive and/or easier to understand.

## Union type

> A union type indicates that a field's value might be one of multiple distinct object types. Those object types are _not_ required to share any fields (but they can).

Reviewer: I don't know that it's helpful to talk about the parent field (here and previously). A union type (and interface type) can be talked about independently of the field that returns it.

If we _do_ want to reference the field, I would call this the field's _return type_ rather than its value.

Here's a rephrase that I don't dislike:
>A field which returns a union type indicates that its value can be one of multiple distinct object types.

> All possible values of a union type must be [object types](./schema/#object-types) (not scalar types, input types, etc.).

### Querying a union field

A union's subfields differ depending on which object type the union contains. For example, in the schema above, a `Result` has a `title` if it's a `Book`, and it has a `name` if it's an `Author`.

GraphQL clients don't know which object type a union will return for a particular query, so a query can include the subfields of _multiple possible types_.

Here's a valid query for the schema above:

```graphql
query GetSearchResults {
  search(contains: "Shakespeare") {
    ... on Book {
      title
    }
    ... on Author {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

This query uses [inline fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#inline-fragments) to fetch a `Result`'s `title` (if it's a `Book`) or its `name` (if it's an `Author`).

For more information, see [Using fragments with unions and interfaces](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/fragments/#using-fragments-with-unions-and-interfaces).

### Resolving a union field

> To fully resolve a union field for client queries, Apollo Server needs to specify which valid object type the field contains. To achieve this, you define a `__resolveType` function for the union type in your resolver map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fully resolve a union field for client queries, Apollo Server needs to specify which object type the field returns. To achieve this, you define a `__resolveType` function for the union type in your resolver map.
```

### Resolving a union field

> To fully resolve a query that includes a union field, Apollo Server needs to specify _which_ of the union's types the field is returning. To achieve this, you define a `__resolveType` function for the union in your resolver map.

Reviewer: Nit: "union field" -> "field which returns a union type"

Technically a union field is not a thing, though I know what you mean by it and it's less of a mouthful than what I'm suggesting. This one's at your discretion.

});
```

## Interface type

An interface specifies a set of fields that multiple object types can include:

```graphql
interface Book {
  title: String
  author: Author
}
```

If an object type `implement`s an interface, it _must_ include _all_ of that interface's fields:

```graphql
type Textbook implements Book {
  title: String # Must be present
  author: Author # Must be present
  courses: [Course]
}
```

> A schema field can have an interface as its type. If it does, the field can contain any object type that implements that interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A field can have an interface as its return type. If it does, the field can return any object type that implements that interface:
```

  }
}
```

This query uses [inline fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#inline-fragments) to fetch a `Book`'s `courses` (if it's a `Textbook`) or its `colors` (if it's a `ColoringBook`).

For more information, see [Using fragments with unions and interfaces](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/fragments/#using-fragments-with-unions-and-interfaces).

### Resolving an interface field

> [As with union types](#resolving-a-union-field), Apollo Server requires interfaces to define a `__resolveType` function to determine which valid object type an interface field contains.

Reviewer: Suggesting this based on a previous suggestion I made, but feel free to ignore both of them if you think it adds value.

```suggestion
[As with union types](#resolving-a-union-field), Apollo Server requires interfaces to define a `__resolveType` function to determine which object type an interface field contains.
```

### Resolving an interface field

> [As with union types](#resolving-a-union-field), Apollo Server requires interfaces to define a `__resolveType` function to determine which implementing object type an interface field is returning.

Reviewer: Similar to a previous comment: "interface field" isn't technically a thing, but to reword this correctly reads even worse than in my previous suggestion.

"...to determine which implementing object type a field which returns an interface is returning" 🤢
